For my final project, I will be creating a machine learning model using a wine classification dataset. The main objective of this project is to utilize several dependent variables that are characteristics of a batch of wine and use them as predictor values for the dependent variable, which is wine quality. Wine quality is identified as either “good” or “bad”. Since this is a definite, discrete response, my model will be made using a classification analysis, otherwise called logistic regression. A few of the variables that will be used as explanatory/independent variables are as follows: volatile acidity, fixed acidity, citric acid, residual sugar, density, pH, and alcohol volume. This is a decent sized dataset, with around 1600 observations consisting of 12 different variables. One advantage of this dataset is that it is already cleaned and preprocessed, so there are no missing values. Also, since it is logistic regression, or so-called classification, the only categorical variable is “good” or “bad”. Another aspect I would like to explore with this dataset is the interaction between different independent variables. I am interested in seeing how an aspect such as pH level interacts with another variable such as volatile acidity, or even find out that there may not be an interaction at all. This would be very insightful and can be done using EDA. This is also a great way to practice data visualization by using pair plots. There are several duos of independent variables whose interactions I would like to explore.
